ON Sunday afternoons people would drive out to have a look at George Lockwood’s wall, and sometimes they would see, from a distance, George Lockwood doing the same thing they were doing. He was there every day, had not missed a day since the first pick had cut into the ground.
   He never spoke directly to the workmen, never complained at the slowness of their work, never praised them, never addressed them individually, although he knew most of them. Some days when he visited the place he would look at the wall for a few minutes, then turn away and go back to his car, and the workmen would know that he was disgusted with their lack of progress. Other days he would come out in the morning, stay till noon, be driven home for lunch, and return to stay all afternoon. When this occurred every man was handed a dollar bill at quitting time, with no explanation given and none needed; George Lockwood was pleased. Sometimes the dollar bonus was distributed for six days running; other times a week would pass with no bonus at all.
   The wall was being built of brick, two feet thick and eight feet high above ground. It was to have a two-inch concrete top, in which would be embedded iron spikes at intervals of twelve inches. The wall was a sizable project: it surrounded thirty acres of land.
   The land had been farmed continually since the early Eighteenth Century. It was land that sloped gently, the high land of the Oscar Dietrich farm, which was now owned by George Lockwood. Earlier Dietrichs had cleared about twenty acres of the land, leaving timber above, which was to the south, and more timber to the east and west. It had not been the best land on the Dietrich farm, and in recent decades it had been used as pasture for the Dietrich Holsteins. George Lockwood was building his wall on a strip that had been cut out of the timber to the south, east and west, so that there would be a stand of trees on both sides of the wall. Thus the property would be surrounded by trees as well as by brick and mortar, since George Lockwood planned to plant trees on both sides of the front, or north, wall.
   The thirty acres was not all that George Lockwood owned. He had bought the entire two hundred acres of the Dietrich farm and the parcels of timberland to the south. People who wondered what he was going to do with the Dietrich farm had their answer when the wall was half finished: George Lockwood sold the Holsteins and the farm equipment, and razed the Dietrich farmhouse, barns and outbuildings. In a month’s time the Dietrich farm was no more; an establishment that had existed for more than a hundred years vanished in a few weeks. Some said it was a sin and a shame, some said it was a crime; but others said that Oscar Dietrich must have got a good price; Oscar always knew what he was doing. He moved to the Lebanon Valley and bought another farm.
   Pretty soon a second gang of workmen were being employed by George Lockwood in a project that was the opposite of the wall-building: the new men were engaged in removing the Dietrich fences; stone, post-and-rail, snake, and wire. As time went on the Sunday visitors to George Lockwood’s wall could see that all traces of previous ownership were being systematically obliterated. Then, one Sunday in the middle of May, they saw that the wall was complete, that a tall temporary board gate was in place.
   A door, with a Yale lock, had been cut out of the board gate. On the door was painted the order: Keep Out. All through the summer the people continued to visit the Lockwood place, but the gate was always closed, and they could not see what they knew to be going on behind the wall: George Lockwood was building a house.
   In the town of Swedish Haven, two miles to the east, no one had been surprised by George Lockwood’s decision to build a high brick wall with spikes on the top. The unusual, they said, was usual for George, and it was correctly guessed that he had first built his wall so that as few people as possible would be able to see what kind of house he was building. The contract for the wall had been given to a Swedish Haven man; the main contractor for the house was from Hagerstown, Maryland, and he brought with him his own carpenters and bricklayers. The plumbing contract was given to a Reading firm; the electrical work was being done by a Philadelphia firm; the interior woodwork was assigned to some Italians in New York; the painting, plastering, and paperhanging were being done by a Fort Penn outfit, the roofing by a gang from Gibbsville. The landscaping was in the hands of a man from Westbury, Long Island; the driveways were being built by a Port Johnson company. Workmen who lived within fifty miles of the Lockwood house came and went each day by truck; the contractors, foremen, and workmen who lived at a greater distance were put up in Gibbsville and Swedish Haven hotels and boarding houses. At the outset the main contractor would say to each sub-contractor: “What I want you to understand is that Mr. Lockwood minds his own business and wants people to mind theirs. When this house is finished he doesn’t want any local people to know their way around it. That’s what he’s paying good money for. First-class work, and his privacy. And you’ve got to admit, he doesn’t haggle over money. When I think of that overtime . . .” The sub-contractors and workmen who arrived after the wall was completed made quick estimates of the cost of the wall, and there were those among them who wished they had put a higher price on their own work. A man who would spend twentythousand, thirty thousand dollars on a wall was not likely to quibble over a few hundred. But there were others among the sub-contractors who had dealt with rich men before, and who had learned that a rich man might spend a lot of money to do something unusual, but he would know what he wanted and would see that he got it.
   These latter sub-contractors were soon congratulating themselves on their guesses about George Lockwood. He came to the a-building house every day, ram or shine or stifling heat, wearing a floppy Panama, dressed in a crash-linen suit, and carrying a cane, which was unusual for a man in his early fifties. He would stroll about in the grounds, nodding but never speaking to the foremen and workmen except to say“Excuse me” when he got in the way. He would climb ladders and walk precariously placed planks. On the very hottest days he would sometimes help himself to a dipperful of water from the workmen’s pail and fan himself with his Panama and wipe under his collar with a fancy silk handkerchief, but he stayed on, never lingering too long over any particular job, but visiting each job several times a day. And he seemed to miss nothing. The workmen early realized that when he visited a particular job several times a day, he was noticing something; for the next day the foreman on that job would make some changes in the work already done. The orders to the foremen came down from the sub-contractor, who got his instructions from the main contractor, who was the only man on the job with whom George Lockwood would have conversation.
   The main contractor, Robert Brackenridge, had a shanty on the grounds. In it he had an unfinished table, some camp chairs, dozens of tubes containing blueprints, fire extinguishers, first aid kit, a telephone, an army cot, a 16-gauge shotgun, several kerosene lamps, a small oaken filing cabinet, a Pennsylvania Railroad and a Prudential Insurance calendar, a water cooler, a board on which hung numerous tabbed keys, and a two-burner kerosene stove. In this shanty, and nowhere else, was George Lockwood seen to sit down, and workmen in the vicinity could overhear conversations through the screened windows. They learned little except that Lockwood called the contractor Robert, and that he was thoroughly acquainted with the blueprints and the details of the specifications. When a sub-contractor was called to the shanty for a conference, Robert Brackenridge would do all the talking, while George Lockwood, smoking pipe or cigarette, nodded in approval.
   For shelter from the summer showers the foremen and workmen had an army mess tent, sides removed, and there they would gather to eat their lunch, sitting on stacks of building materials that also needed protection from the rain. The workmen were from so many different places that the electricians tended to keep with electricians, carpenters with carpenters, but they were united in their baffled curiosity about the man who was footing the bills. These were men with special skills; well paid, independent, quietly proud American artisans, who could do things that George Lockwood could buy but could not do himself. They respected his understanding of their work, and they agreed among themselves that it was better to work for him than for a man who would waste their time in friendly conversation and picky suggestions. They quickly—and accurately—surmised that George Lockwood had made a study of the art of building a good house, and it did not matter to them that they did not like him. In a few months the house would be finished, and they would be off on other jobs, and they would remember him as a man who had treated them right without patronizing them. They would remember the day he killed two copperheads with his cane, the cane that they had thought was only the sign of a dude; and they would remember how he had taken charge when one of the bricklayers had a sunstroke and fell off a scaffolding. He had the bricklayer carried to the shade of the tent, showed the other bricklayers how to rub the man’s wrists and ankles, and got some turpentine from the painters and applied it to the back of the man’s neck. When the man came to, Lockwood made him stay where he was until the doctor arrived from Swedish Haven to examine him for concussion and broken bones. On that occasion there never had been any question as to who was giving orders. “Turpentine. I never heard of that before,” said one of the men. “Where would he find out a thing like that?”
   “Where does he find out a lot of things?” said another. “He don’t need Bob Brackenridge. Bob Brackenridge needs him.”
   Two days later, when the bricklayer returned to work, George Lockwood looked at him as though he had never seen him before, and quickly turned away as the man came forward to thank him.
   In mid-October the house was finished except for certain interior woodwork that was being done by the Italians from New York. The lighting and the plumbing were functioning, and the furnace had been tested and proven satisfactory. The house was ready for occupancy, and Robert Brackenridge returned to Hagerstown with a bonus cheque in his wallet. The Italians were three in number, and their English was scanty. They had not become acquainted with the other workmen, who spoke English or Pennsylvania Dutch, and they looked down on the few Italians in Swedish Haven, who were pick-and-shovel laborers. George Lockwood’s Italian woodworkers wore leathern aprons, but beneath the aprons were waistcoat and trousers, silk shirts, collars and neckties. As soon as the last of the other workmen had departed, the Italians went to work in the room that was to be George Lockwood’s study, and even though they were alone in the house, they kept the study door locked, admitting no one but Lockwood himself.
   The room as Brackenridge and his men had left it contained a large fireplace, to one side of which was a large closet door. Brackenridge had suggested another place for the closet, but Lockwood had overruled him. Now the Italians removed the door, cut away the ceiling and flooring of the closet, and installed a winding stairway that started in a closet in George Lockwood’s bedroom, directly above the study, and continued down into the cellar. It was thus possible for George Lockwood to go from his bedroom to the cellar without using the main staircase or the kitchen stairs, and if he wished he could likewise go from his bedroom to his study unseen. The bedroom closet, which Brackenridge had described as enormous, was now reduced in size. The Italians installed a new closet wall, which was a large panel that fitted into grooves and could be rolled up to allow entrance to the hidden stairway. The original closet door in the study was replaced with paneling that matched the rest of the paneling, but it was still a door, hung on invisible hinges and opened by pressing a spring that was disguised as a gargoyle, one of a row of gargoyles that were carved out of the mantelpiece. The door could not be opened accidentally by a touch or a bump; the gargoyle had to be turned like a doorknob and then firmly pushed before the spring would be released. With a few drops of oil once a year, the mechanism would last as long as the house, and George Lockwood expected the house to last two centuries. Egress from the hidden stairway in the cellar was made through a sliding panel similar to the one in George Lockwood’s bedroom. As in the bedroom, this panel was the back wall of a closet, which had been designated in the plans as storage place for old correspondence, receipted bills, cancelled cheques, and the like.
   Full of compliments for the craftmanship, and with bonus cheques in their pockets, the Italians put index fingers to their lips and crossed their hearts, shook hands and grinned at George Lockwood, and went back to New York. The house was now almost ready to be shown to Geraldine Lockwood.
   George Lockwood had a last look around the house, the four-car garage, and the grounds while it was still daylight on an afternoon in October 1926. Shortly after four-thirty o’clock he got into his little Packard roadster and moved toward the iron gates that now hung in place. Deegan, the temporary watchman from the detective agency, swung open the gates. “Goodnight, Mr. Lockwood,” he said. “See you tomorrow.”
   “No, not tomorrow, Deegan,” said George Lockwood. “Tomorrow I’m going to sleep all morning.”
   “Well, I take that for a good indication,” said Deegan. “In other words, the job is finished satisfactory?”
   “Now it’s all up to Mrs. Lockwood.”
   “Well, all I got to say is it’s a feast to the eye. I never seen such a beautiful house in all me life. A real residence, palatial, to my way of thinking. You’ve a right to be real proud, Mr. Lockwood. Real proud.”
   “Thank you, Deegan. Goodnight.”
   “A veritable dream come true,” said Deegan. “Goodnight again, sir.”
   George Lockwood drove in the twilight to his old house in Swedish Haven, where he had been born; a square red brick house that seemed to rise suddenly in the center of a square lawn. He put the car in the horseless stable and walked around to the front door and let himself in. The sounds he had made brought May Freese from the kitchen.
   “Any messages, May?”
   “No sir, nobody called, and nothing in the afternoon mail.”
   “All negative.”
   “Only the papers. Where will I bring your tea to?”
   “My study, and have we got anything like a piece of cake in the house?”
   “We have what’s left of that angel food, you had last night with the ice cream.”
   “All right. Bring me a piece of that instead of toast.”
   “You want a piece of angel food instead of your buttered toast?”
   “Yes, May. A piece of angel food instead of my buttered toast. I’m not going to have buttered toast today. I’m going to have some of last night’s angel food.”
   “Angel food,” said May, leaving.
   George Lockwood went upstairs, washed his face and hands, and changed to a velvet smoking jacket and cracked patent leather pumps. May brought in the tea tray and put it in front of him on his desk.“Notice there’s four letters,” she said. “Margaret took them out of the box while I was up doing the third story. The least she could do was tell me.”
   “I think the very least she could do,” said George Lockwood.
   “That angel food’s a little stale. It gets stale if you leave it.”
   “I like it that way. I don’t like it gummy.”
   “In another day it won’t be any good.”
   “In another day it won’t be here. I’m going to eat it all.”
   “How you can eat so much and don’t get fat.”
   “I’m very active. I’m busy all the time.”
   “Yes. How’s the new house?”
   “It’s finished. That’s why I’m having the cake.”
   “It’s all finished? Everything?”
   “All finished. From here on it’s Mrs. Lockwood’s job.”
   “When are you going to take us out for a look? Margaret and I.”
   “When I’m good and ready.”
   “Do you know what I heard? Well, I didn’t hear it, Margaret did, but she told me.”
   “What did Margaret hear and obligingly tell you?”
   “I don’t know if it’s true or not.”
   “Well, you wouldn’t want to repeat anything unless it was true.”
   “We heard that one side of the house settled.”
   “Settled? Oh, sank? Settled that way?”
   “They’re starting rumors already, before you get in. I heard another one myself. Let me think, what was it? Oh! Are you giving this house for a hospital? That’s what I heard.”
   “Can you keep a secret?”
   “Sure.”
   “I don’t know. I haven’t finally decided what I’m going to do with this house. The doctors want to start a hospital. That’s probably what you heard.”
   “No, I heard you gave it.”
   “Well, I didn’t.”
   “Is the new house settling?”
   “I won’t tell you.”
   “Then it is, huh?”
   “I’m never going to deny or confirm anything about the new house, May. I’ve told you that before.”
   “They done nothing but talk about that house, ever since you started building that wall. It sure did give this town something to talk about.”
   “Was there ever a time when they didn’t have something to talk about?”
   “I guess people always find something to talk about.”
   “Yes indeed.”
   “That’s what I was thinking. They always do find something. If it isn’t one thing, then it’s another.”
   “No doubt about it. Now what else is on your mind, May?”
   “Therewas something.”
   “Yes.”
   “I did tell you about some things come by parcel post.”
   “No.”
   “All stuff from New York City, all addressed toher.”
   “Things for the new house, I imagine.”
   “Oh, now I remember what I wanted to ask you.”
   “Ah, good. What, May?”
   “No, that wasn’t it. I did ask you that. Oh! Yes! Margaret and I were talking, and the subject came up of Andrew and his wife. In the new place are they gonna have rooms over the grodge?”
   “Why?”
   “Well, I wouldn’t mind, but Margaret said she wouldn’t want to live out there in that lonely place if there wasn’t a man there at night. Me, I’m used to it. I was born-raised on a farm, so I don’t mind. But Margaret, she’s used to town.”
   “You’re a simple soul, May.”
   “Why do you say that? Maybe I am, and maybe I’m not. It depends on how you mean it.”
   “You are being used as a pawn.Andrew and his wife are the ones who really want to know about the garage. Andrew has been trying to find out for over a year. So he’s got Margaret to getyou to find out. Do you see that, May?”
   “Oh. Well, yes, in a way I guess I do. Well, then, don’t tell me. I’ll just go back and tell Margaret I couldn’t find anything out.”
   “I have no intention of telling you, or Margaret, or Andrew, until I’m good and ready. You and Margaret have been with me long enough to know that, but you never seem to learn.”
   “I learned. I told Margaret we wouldn’t find anything out.”
   “But she thought it was worth a try.”
   “Yes, she thought it was worth a try. Almost her exact words.”
   “Yes, Margaret likes to be clever, forgetting that Andrew’s even cleverer. All right, May. You may take these things away. I’m going to have my bath, and dinner at seven-thirty. What are we having for dinner?”
   “Veal cutlets.”
   “Good, and while I think of it, I want to sleep tomorrow morning. Don’t bring my coffee till ten o’clock.”
   “Ten o’clock?”
   “Ten—o’clock. You’d better write it down on the slate, as soon as you get to the kitchen. ‘His coffee at ten.’ “
   She smiled.“How do you know that’s what I’ll write?”
   “Because I make it a point to know a lot of things, Mabel Christina Freese, born April 12, 1886.”
   “Don’t tell Margaret the year.”
   “I won’t.”
   “Thank you, sir,” she said. At the beginning and at the end of all their chats May Freese would remember to say sir, but the suspicion that he was enjoying himself with her made formality impossible during the in-between part. She was a strong, hard-working woman, who was beginning to realize that time was getting short for her, but in the not unpleasant routine of domestic service—the hours were long, but the tasks were simple—she postponed the positive action that she felt she ought to take. She was uncertain and vague as to what that action should be.
   George Lockwood read the Gibbsville afternoon paper through, and refolded it and left it where May would find it. He rose, stretched, and was about to go upstairs when the telephone rang. He lifted the receiver and said:“Hello—all right, May, I’ll take it. Hello.” May, in the kitchen, hung up.
   “Mr. Lockwood? It’s Deegan, Matthew Deegan? Out at the place?”
   “Yes, Deegan.”
   “Can you hear me all right? I’m calling from the shanty.”
   “Yes, I can hear you. What’s the trouble?”
   “I thought I better tell you, Mr. Lockwood. We’d an accident out here. It’s a bad one.”
   “Yes, what kind of an accident? A fire?”
   “No sir. It’s a young lad, we don’t know his name for sure, but he’s dead. He was killed.”
   “Killed? On my property? How did he get in?”
   “Him and another young lad, they climbed up a tree on the outside of the wall, the Richterville side.”
   “The west wall. Yes.”
   “This one lad, the dead one, he climbed up the tree and out on one of the limbs that extended over the top of the wall.”
   “There’s no limb extending over the top of the wall that’s strong enough to support a man.”
   “That’s how he got killed. The limb broke and he fell on top of the wall. Two of them spikes went in him, Mr. Lockwood.”
   “Oh, Christ! Jesus! You mean he was impaled?”
   “I didn’t hear that, Mr. Lockwood.”
   “The spikes went through his body?”
   “He let out a scream, and I ran in that direction, and there he was.”
   “Jesus Christ! Alive?”
   “It was a terrible thing, Mr. Lockwood. Still alive, and I couldn’t reach high enough to get him off the wall. I run to get a ladder, but by the time I found one in the cellar and got back to him, he was just lying there across the top of the wall. The poor little fellow, about twelve or fourteen years of age.”
   “Where was the other boy? Ran, I suppose.”
   “He ran before I could stop him. I yelled to him, but he kept going, and I didn’t try to stop him.”
   “No, of course not. Then I suppose you telephoned for a doctor?”
   “And the state police. One of the spikes went through near his heart, and the other broke his spine. He didn’t have to suffer long, thanks be to God, poor lad. I guess they were after chestnuts.”
   “I doubt it. I haven’t got any chestnut trees. Where is the boy now?”
   “The statics had him taken to the undertaker’s, in town.”
   “Town meaning here? Swedish Haven?”
   “Yes sir. It shouldn’t take them long to find out who he is.”
   “No, the other boy will certainly tell what happened. They must be farm boys.”
   “Yes sir. The lad that was killed, he was wearing a pair of overhauls, and them felt boots. Do you want me to keep you informed if I hear anything else? I guess the state police will come and see you.”
   “Oh,” said George Lockwood. “Well, I won’t be here, Deegan. I have to leave right away for Philadelphia. You tell your office that I’ll be in touch with them in the morning, and if there’s any legal matter to attend to, have the state police call Mr. Arthur McHenry, at McHenry& Chapin’s. You know where their office is.”
   “Yes sir. If you want to give me your address in Philadelphia.”
   “Well, I’m not sure where I’ll be. I’ll telephone your office in the morning. I’m sorry this had to happen, Deegan. Very harrowing experience for you.”
   “Yes sir. I’m getting another man from the agency to stay here tonight. I couldn’t last out the night thinking of that poor lad.”
   “Go home and try to think about something else.”
   “That’s what I’m gunna try to do. Goodnight, Mr. Lockwood.”
   “Goodnight,” said George Lockwood. He hurried upstairs and put on his shoes and jacket and packed a small bag. He went downstairs and through the kitchen. “No dinner. I’ve been called to Philadelphia on urgent business.”
   “You won’t get a train now,” said Margaret.
   “I’m driving.” He closed the door, started the little Packard, and was on his way. At Reading he drove to the Outer Station and after mentioning the names of two local directors of the line, gave the car keys to the stationmaster and boarded the next train for New York.
   In a week’s time the fuss would die down and he would not have been mixed up in it.
•

   “I was just about to call the operator and tell her I didn’t want to be disturbed,” said Geraldine Lockwood.
   “Who on earth would disturb you?” said George Lockwood.
   She raised her eyebrows.“That’s a thought. Who would? I always leave word that I don’t want to be disturbed, but now that I think of it, there’s no one that would call me at three o’clock in the morning, or five o’clock in the morning. You think of things like that.”
   “I can understand why you’d leave word that you didn’t want to take any calls before, say, ten o’clock. But just leaving word that you didn’t want to be disturbed—no.”
   “Every night since I’ve been staying here, I’ve called the operator, just before I turned out my light, and told her I didn’t want to be disturbed. They’re very nice, these operators.”
   “Yes, the whole staff are very nice. I told you you’d like this place. I’ve been staying at the Carstairs ever since it opened, twenty-five years ago. I like it because it’s big enough so they don’t have to overcharge you, but at the same time small enough so that you know the people and they know you.”
   “My family always stayed at the Waldorf or the Knickerbocker.”
   “You and Howard always stayed at the Murray Hill.”
   “Nearly always. Sometimes the Waldorf. It seems so strange when I come to New York not to be staying at the Waldorf. I never became quite so attached to the Murray Hill. That was Howard and his family.”
   “It’s a pretty good hotel, but lately they’ve been letting it run down. I hear it’s going to pieces. Well, so is Howard Buckmaster, for that matter.”
   “Let’s not talk about Howard. I’d much rather talk about what sudden impulse brought you to New York. If you’re ready to tell me.”
   “I’ve already told you. The sudden impulse was to tell you that the house is all finished—and not over the telephone.”
   “Well, that’s sweet, but I don’t believe it. You do unexpected things, but you’re not sentimental.”
   “I’m not?”
   “I don’t think so, George. You can be romantic, but not sentimental.”
   “What do you consider the difference?”
   “Well—I can’t just say offhand.”
   “Well, give me an example of the sentimental and an example of the romantic.”
   “I’m trying to think. A romantic man can be very romantic and ‘ still never lose his head. Thinking every minute. But a sentimental man is entirely swayed by his emotions. A man can be deliberately romantic, but I don’t think he can be deliberately sentimental. You did a lot of romantic things. I guess we both did.”
   “Do you consider yourself sentimental?”
   “No, perhaps not. But more so than you are. Howard was sentimental, but not a bit romantic. I think romantic people are probably more intelligent.”
   “Uh—I think intelligent people aren’t likely to be sentimental,” he said.
   “That’s better. I guess because you’re so intelligent you couldn’t possibly be sentimental, but you can be romantic.”
   “Well, then let’s say that my coming to New York instead of telephoning was romantic, and not sentimental,” he said.
   “All right. I agree.”
   “Have you missed me?”
   “The last few days, very much. All last week and the week before I went to bed exhausted. I told you that.”
   “Yes.”
   “It’s true. I love shopping for myself. Clothes and things like that. But furnishing a house—I’ve done all the bedrooms and our dressing-rooms, and the halls. And on the ground floor, the diningroom and the little sitting-room. And the hall. But the big room on the ground floor, you’re going to have to help me.”
   “No, I want you to do everything but my study,” he said.
   “I don’t feel right about it. That’s where we’ll entertain and that room should have more of you.”
   “You’ll be the hostess.”
   “But you’ll be the host, and for instance I saw a large Chinese vase. It’s five feet high and comes on a teakwood base. Perfectly beautiful, and horribly expensive.”
   “How horribly expensive?”
   “Five thousand.”
   “That’s not too expensive for some Chinese pieces.”
   “But for a country house, and you’re going to see it every day. It’s blue, a deep blue but not sombre. Bright. And the design is carried out in a very yellowy gold and some black. It’s an exquisite thing.”
   “Get it. You obviously love it. And the southeast corner of that room needs something like that.”
   “Oh, I wouldn’t have it there. I’d have it on the right, just as you come in from the hall.”
   “Then you’d want something on the left.”
   “Oh, dear. That’s just the trouble.”
   “What?”
   “I have a confession to make.”
   “Confess.”
   “This vase is one of a pair.”
   “Ten thousand?”
   “Eight thousand for the pair. I got them to come down.”
   “Then you have another confession to make?”
   “Yes. I’ve bought them. Oh, this isn’t the way I planned to break the news to you. George, youmake me tell you things. You do somehow, you know. You look at me with those clear blue eyes and I hear myself saying things I had no intention of saying. But you will let me have them, won’t you? I know just how I can save four thousand, on some guest-room rugs.”
   “The pair of vases will be a present.”
   “All right! Christmas! I’ll have them for my Christmas present.”
   “No, that’s not fair. I’ll still give you a Christmas present. We’ll consider it a reward for all those miles you walked shopping.”
   “Honestly, I’d love them for a Christmas present.”
   “As it happens, I’ve already ordered your Christmas present.”
   “You’ve ordered it? It’s something you had to order two months ahead?”
   “Yes, but don’t start guessing.” He rose. “I am now going to take my bath.”
   “Do you want me in your bed when you come back?”
   “Yes,” he said. He did not look at her again, and as he closed the bathroom door she snapped the bedside light. When he returned to the darkened room he picked up the receiver. “Operator, this is Mr. Lockwood in 1120. No calls before ten o’clock, please. Ten o’clock. Goodnight.”
•

   It was past eight o’clock when he awoke and looked at his sleeping wife in the other bed. He got out of bed, shaved and had a shower, and as soon as he reentered the bedroom she opened her eyes. “Good morning, dear,” she said.
   “Good morning. Would you like to have some breakfast now? I’m going to have mine.”
   “What time is it?”
   “Three minutes short of nine,” he said.
   “Oh, I slept so well.”
   “Yes,” he said. “What about breakfast? Shall I order for you, or do you want to go back to sleep?”
   “Oh, order for me, by all means. You do that while I wash my face.”
   “Good,” he said. He waited until she closed the bathroom door behind her, then picked up the receiver. “Good morning. Mr. Lockwood, Room 1120. I want to order breakfast, but I still don’t want to receive any calls. And instead of ten o’clock, make that eleven. No calls before eleven, please. And now will you give me Room Service?”
   He gave the breakfast order; orange juice, toast, and coffee for his wife; orange juice, oatmeal, fried eggs and bacon, toast, jam, and coffee for himself. Geraldine was still in the bathroom when the meal arrived; the waiter left, and George Lockwood knocked on the bathroom door.
   “Breakfast is here,” he called.
   She came out immediately.“I don’t mind having a waiter serve my breakfast when I’m alone,” she said. “But I hate it when you’re in the room.”
   “Why?”
   “Because I can’t help but think what’s going on in his mind. No matter how respectful they may seem, they’re usually foreigners, and you know what they’re thinking. Wondering whether we slept together.”
   “I’m sure that every foreigner assumes that something went on. If not the previous night, the one before that. Or will go on the next night. Or in our case, that I’m probably getting on in years, and that you have a lover.”
   “I have. You.”
   “Thank you, Geraldine. Shall I pour your coffee?”
   “Yes, dear, please.” She stood near him and drank her orange juice, took the coffee he handed her, and sat across the service table. “It’s so long since we’ve had breakfast together.”
   “Well, you’d rather not.”
   “No woman of forty-eight is a fairy princess when she gets up in the morning. Still, we miss something by not having breakfast together.”
   “Well, maybe in the new house. I’ll have my bath and get rid of my beard, and you can do whatever you feel is necessary, and we can meet over the orange juice, so to speak.”
   “I like your tie,” she said.
   “Oh,” he said. “I’ll be here for about a week.”
   “You will? You didn’t pack for a week, or are you having some things sent on?”
   “I’d like you to do me a favor if you will. Will you go over to Brooks Brothers and ask for Mr. Huntington. I’ll write this all down for you. Tell Mr. Huntington I’d like to have half a dozen shirts. He’ll know what kind when you tell him who you are. And then will you bring them back to me?”
   “Of course. Mr. Huntington will know the material and the sizes and everything? Would you like me to leave right away?”
   “Well, finish your coffee, and it’d be nice if you put some clothes on,” he said.
   “Didn’t you bring another suit?”
   “Didn’t have room, or time, or anything. I’ll go to Brooks and get something later in the day, and if we go out in the evening, I always keep a dinner jacket and evening things at the club.”
   “So did Howard.” She smiled. “I remember one time he didn’t pack his Tuck, because he had one athis club. Then when he tried to put it on he couldn’t button the trousers, he’d put on so much weight.”
   “Well, I haven’t put on any weight.”
   “You’re hurrying me, aren’t you?”
   “A little,” he said.
   “What’s the matter with the shirt you have on?”
   “Not a thing, but I want to get those other shirts in the laundry, don’t you see? It’s past nine o’clock, Geraldine, and I’m going to have to speak to Mr. DeBorio so that the shirts will get done today. Mr. DeBorio is the manager.”
   “I know. Funny little man, but perfectly charming.”
   George Lockwood looked at his wife.
   “All right, dear, all right,” she said.
   He waited until she was gone ten minutes, then telephoned the Gibbsville lawyer, Arthur McHenry.
   “It was a clear case of trespassing, George. The property is posted, so I’m told by Deegan, and you had a watchman, Deegan. I don’t see any way that you can be held responsible. Liable. If you want to give the boy’s family a few dollars, I can prepare some sort of quit-claim, a release, andI think that’s the last we’ll ever hear of it.”
   “How much, Arthur?”
   “Oh, two or three hundred dollars. It’s a large family, and I’ll put it to them that you’d like to pay the funeral expenses. As you know, these people never have much cash, and a hundred dollars would cover the undertaker’s bill.”
   “Give them five hundred.”
   Arthur McHenry chuckled.“If you give them five hundred the parents aren’t going to be able to squeeze out many tears. That’ll be a real windfall for those people.”
   “Well, I don’t want any bad feeling, and by the way, I’m keeping this from Geraldine. Was there anything in the morning paper?”
   “Yes. A little article on the front page. Nothing sensational.”
   “Would it be possible to have the deputy coroner finish up his investigation before we get back?”
   “I shouldn’t think that would be any problem. I’ll speak to him, and I think we could rush it through, oh, within two or three days. They’re performing the autopsy today. Cause of death is obvious. And no crime involved, except that the boy was trespassing. The deputy coroner is a young doctor named Miller. You may know him. Been in Swedish Haven about three years.”
   “I know him. He’s one of those that approached me about turning over my old house for a hospital.”
   Arthur McHenry laughed.“Oh, my. What would you do if you were in Miller’s position?”
   “Yes, I see.”
   “This case is practically closed, right this minute, or as soon as I speak to Dr. Miller.”
   “Thank you, Arthur. Remember me to Joe Chapin.”
   “I’ll do that, George. My best to Geraldine. Not now, though.”
   “I’ll save it for some other time, Arthur. Thanks again.”
   George Lockwood looked hastily but carefully through the morning newspapers on the remote chance that the accident might be of news value to New York editors because of its particular gruesomeness, but neither theHerald Tribune nor theTimes had seen fit to publish a word about it. Geraldine, followed by a bellboy, returned to the room in less than an hour.
   “Thank you, Bob,” said George Lockwood to the bellboy.
   “Right you are, sir,” said the bellboy, and placed the parcel on the luggage stand and departed.
   “Mr. Huntington told me to tell you he could have saved me the trip. All you had to do was phone him,” said Geraldine.
   “You were very prompt. Very efficient, my dear, and you don’t know Huntington. Whether I spoke to him on the phone or whatever, he would have inquired about every Brooks customer in Lantenengo County, and my brother and my nephews and anybody else he could think of to talk about.”
   “That’s why you made me go. I was wondering. But you always have a reason for things, I’ve learned that.”
   He rang for the valet.“Haven’tyou? I think everybody has.”
   “Not to the extent that you do, and you don’t always explain what your reasons are. Consequently, you mystify people a lot of times.”
   “I’ve never mystified you, have I? At least I’ve never let you stay mystified after you ask for an explanation.”
   “No, that’s true, dear. But sometimes I forget to ask.”
   “Then you can’t really blame me, can you? When something I do mystifies you, just ask. As to other people, I simply don’t give a damn. I owe no one any explanation for anything. Thought, word, or deed. And they love it. All those stories we heard about the wall. Why I had to have a wall. How much it was going to cost me. And why I discontinued the Dietrich farm. The people in the Valley and Swedish Haven—it’s like giving them free band concerts.”
   “Whydid you discontinue the Dietrich farm?”
   “I told you.”
   “You gave me a funny reason. Humorous, that is. You said the prevailing wind was from the west, and we’d get tired of the odor of cow manure.”
   “That answer seemed to satisfy you at the time. What’s more, it happens to be true.”
   “But there must be another reason.”
   “There is. Actually, two. One is that in a few years’ time you’ll find that the quail will be plentiful in that lower land, and we’ll have some damn good shooting. A few seasons and the land will be all grown over and full of game. The other reason, of course, is that Dietrichs have farmed that land for so many years that they think of it as theirs, no matter who owns it legally. And the only thing to do was get rid of them, lock, stock and barrel. Good fences make good neighbors, they say. But I did more than build a good fence. I transplanted the neighbors to Lebanon County. I’m very fond of the Dietrichs, now that they’re forty miles away. But Oscar wouldn’t have made a good tenant, not on what was once his own land.”
   “I never would have thought it all out so carefully,” she said.
   “You didn’t have to. I began thinking of these things when we were married. I knew you didn’t like the old house in Swedish Haven.”
   “But I did. At least I didn’t dislike it.”
   “No woman likes to live in a house that her husband’s first wife lived in for twenty years.”
   “But it wasn’t her house as much as it was yours. You were born there, and your brother. If it was any woman’s house, it was your mother’s.”
   “My grandmother’s. Mother never liked that house. And in a few more years you would have liked it even less.”
   “Why didn’t your mother like it?”
   “I can only guess. My mother’d never tell any ofus that she didn’t like the house.”
   “You and your brother?”
   “Children were children, and they stayed children till they were married. No matter what my father did or said, he was right, according to my mother, and there was to be no discussion or any criticism of anything the parents did. And I meanno criticism, even unspoken criticism. If we didn’t like something they did, and were caught making a face, we’d get a good hard slap.” He rubbed his newly shaved chin. “Those fat little hands could slap.”
   “I’m really glad we’re past the age for having children. Or at least that I am.”
   “So am I. There’ll be small ones around at Christmas for years to come. And any other time we want them, butonly when we want them.”
   “Yes. That isn’t exactly what I meant, but—”
   “Oh, I know what you meant, Geraldine. You wouldn’t want the task of bringing up a young baby.”
   “That’s it. The responsibility.”
   “I knew that. Ah.” The door was opened, simultaneously with a knock. “Peter.”
   “Good morning, sir. Ma’am. Heard you was stopping with us, sir. Pleasure to see you again, sir, Mr. Lockwood. How can I be of service to you, sir?”
   “Good morning, Peter. See that blue box with the yellow edge? Half a dozen brand-new shirts in there,” said George Lockwood.
   “That have to go into the laundry before Mr. Lockwood wears them. Yes sir.”
   “I know it’s past the time—”
   “Oh, I think a special effort can be made, sir. Washed and ironed, no starch, and returned to this ‘ere room by no later than eight o’clock this evening, sir? Unless Mr. Lockwood has some evening shirts amongst them? There I’d be inclined to be pessimistic, sir. Sorry.”
   “No evening shirts, Peter.”
   “In that case, I just take the box down meself and as one might say, exert a bit of pressure, sir. Very good sir, thank you sir. Ma’am.”
   “Thank you, Peter.”
   “Thank you, sir.” The valet left.
   “Thank you zah,” said Geraldine. “Zah. He sounds as though he were saying czar.”
   “I think they learn that in the British army. Well, now, my dear, what shall we do this evening? Would you like to see a show?”
   “You’re not taking me out to lunch?”
   “I thought you might have plans of your own, so I think I’d like to spend the day downtown.”
   “I’m having lunch at Henri’s. Mary Chadburn, if you’d like to join us.”
   “God will bless you for being nice to Mary Chadburn, but I don’t want to take anything away from your kind act. You lunch with Mary, and there’ll be a gold star in the Good Book for you.”
   “I like Mary.”
   “Everybodylikes Mary. What could anybody possibly have against her? I’ll be at Lockwood& Company most of the day.” He kissed her cheek. “I’m glad you ordered the vases. They sound just right,” he said, and folded his topcoat over his arm and saluted her with his hat, and left.
   George Lockwood’s private office at Lockwood& Company was the smallest in the suite, but it was never used even temporarily by anyone else, and it was always kept ready for just such sudden, unexpected visits as that which George now paid. He went directly to his office, speaking to some of the staff on the way. As was customary, Miss Strademyer knocked on his door and asked if she could take any dictation.“Not this minute, Miss Strademyer. Maybe later. Is my brother in?”
   “Yes sir.”
   “Well, I’ll just go over my mail and then after I’ve seen my brother I may have some letters for you. After lunch, most likely. You’re looking very well, for a girl that just had her appendix out.”
   “Oh, that was in August. I’ve almost forgotten about it.”
   “You should have had it done last spring, not during your vacation.”
   “I didn’t want to have it done at all, and put it off to the last minute. Even then I thought it was swimming cramps.”
   “I told you last spring.”
   “Oh, you were right, no doubt about it.”
   “How is everything else with you?”
   “Meaning?”
   “Your life away from the office.”
   “I have somebody.”
   “Good. Who? Are you going to marry him?”
   “I don’t know. I haven’t made up my mind. I couldn’t stay here if I did.”
   “Why couldn’t you?”
   “Obvious reasons.”
   “Not so obvious, Marian. You don’t have to tell him everything.”
   “No, but if he ever did find outanything. Men are men, and he’d never believe that it hasn’t been going on all the time.”
   “He probably wouldn’t, therefore why tell him at all? Ever. I can assure youI’ve never said a word to anyone. Not a word, to anyone. No one in this office ever had the slightest suspicion that I know of, and if they didn’t know it here, where else would they know it? I think you’re worried about me, Marian. That I might some day say something.”
   “No, I’m really more worried about myself.”
   “Then I suggest that you have a serious talk with yourself. Face the fact that you’re exaggerating the importance of something that happened two years ago. It wasn’t important then. You said so yourself at the time. Why make it important now? Be honest, Marian. The only thing that would have made it important was if you had fallen in love with me, and you didn’t do that. The fourth time I wanted to see you, you very firmly refused, and did I ever bother you again?”
   “No. You were very nice about that.”
   “Well, be that as it may, I think the trouble now is that you’ve fallen in love with this man, and hadn’t been in love with anyone else in between.”
   “You’re right.”
   “And there’s something very self-destructive about the business of falling in love. I don’t know exactly what it is, but men and women feel compelled to talk too much. I’m afraid the reason is that they want to test the other person’s love, and they do it in a way that’s cruel to the other person and self-destructive to themselves. Have you still got your apartment?”
   “Yes.”
   “Would you like to meet me there at four o’clock this after-noon?”
   “No, I wouldn’t.”
   “Well, then you’re free of me. It’s as simple as that, Marian.”
   “What if I had said yes?”
   “Would you like to try saying yes? You’re just as attractive to me as ever.”
   “But there’s nothing in it for either of us, is there?”
   “Pleasure. That’s all it was before.”
   “Yes, that’s true. That’s really all it was.”
   “And after me there were others that were no more than pleasure, weren’t there? Before this man.”
   “Yes, there were two others. He knows aboutthem.”
   “Then the reason you haven’t told him about us was that you don’t want to give up your job, for fear he’ll think you’re my mistress.”
   “I’ve never been anybody’smistress. I certainly wasn’t yours, was I?”
   “Hardly, considering the intervals between the three nights we spent together. As a friend of yours, and quite a bit older, I suggest that you marry this man and keep your job here, and put your trust in me as a gentleman. I mean that. I’ll give you my word now that I’ll never again ask to see you outside the office.”
   “I’m probably making too much of the whole thing.”
   “No, not if it bothers you. But I think you’re so close to happiness that you ought to act decisively. Get yourself married, keep your job here, and let the future take care of the rest.”
   “I think that’s good advice.”
   “You’re a very attractive woman, Marian.”
   “You’re a very attractive man.”
   “Come over here,” he said.
   “No, I don’t think I’d better. And I think you’d better have one of the other girls take your letters, at least today.”
   “All right. Make it Miss Thorpe. She won’t distract me.”
   She returned to the outer office, and Daisy Thorpe said to her:“What did he say this time?”
   “Oh, he’s always teasing or making jokes.”
   “Does he talk dirty?”
   “George Lockwood? He’s above that.”
   They saw him, a few minutes later, going from his office to the larger, more elegant room occupied by his brother.
   “Hello, George,” said Penrose Lockwood.
   “Good morning, Pen. Are you free for lunch?”
   “No, I’m not free, but you can come along. I’m having lunch with Ray Turner and Charley Bohm.”
   “What dothey want?”
   “Oh, don’t take that tone. I don’t know for sure what it is they have, but the way those two have been going, I want to be in on it. You don’t have to come in if you don’t want to.”
   “Are you going there for the Company or for yourself?”
   “Both.”
   “I hope you go slow about involving the Company.”
   “Why?”
   “Well, because before you involve the Company, I think you ought to hear what I have to say.”
   “I always do, but you’ve touted meand the Company off some pretty good things. You’ve been so God damn busy with this country estate of yours. How’s it coming along, by the way?”
   “It’s finished. Ready to move the furniture in.”
   “October. Well, I’ll give you credit. You said the first of November. But I started to say, why do you think your judgment is more reliable, sitting there in Swedish Haven, and I’m right here where things happen?”
   “My judgment isn’t more reliable, Pen, and I never claimed it was. And I never really touted you off anything.”
   “Oh, the hell you didn’t.”
   “Now don’t say that. I didn’t. All I’ve done, and will continue to do, is make you count to ten, so to speak. And while you’re counting, consider all the factors. In this market today, generally speaking, if you miss out on something good, something equally good will be along tomorrow.”
   “If you hear about it in time,” said Penrose Lockwood. “It isn’t quite as good, you know, if a lot of others have heard about it too.”
   “At the moment, almost everything is good, if you’re not too greedy.”
   “Well, then, you can call me greedy if you like, but I’ve made money for you, haven’t I?”
   “Yes, and I’ve made some for you. But Pen, it isn’t only a question of making money. I hear of all sorts of people making pots of it these days, so it isn’t any great accomplishment.”
   “What is?”
   “Holding on to it.”
   Penrose Lockwood laughed.“Holding on to it? What’s this house of yours going to cost, if it’s any of my business?”
   “It isn’t any of your business. I don’t ask you what you do with yours, and you know damn well that isn’t what I meant. Holding on to it means having it twenty-five, fifty years from now. For instance, things get a little bad in the automobile industry, and that man Ford orders an eight-hour day and a five-day week. He doesn’t have anybody but himself to think of. But suppose all the big industries behaved that way?”
   “It may not be so bad after all. He cut down over-production and made new jobs.”
   “That’s what he wants you to think. But don’t you see what this inevitably leads to? The immediate effect of courseis to cut down over-production. But if every big industry followed suit, all production would slow down. All production, and this is a high-production country. You can’t run this country on a five-day week. That is socialism in disguise. The labor union people know it, and they welcome it.”
   “I don’t follow you.”
   “Look, Pen. Put this country on a five-day week, and you have to employ more men. But they won’t be skilled men. They’ll be incompetent, lazy bastards, getting the same money as the skilled men. That’s the way I feel about spreading the work over a greater number of men. You have to hire the incompetents. That’s something I’ve been learning with my new house. I don’t mind paying a good carpenter good wages, but I’ve had to pay lazy men the same money I paid good men. I’m talking now about unskilled labor. I wanted some fences removed, so I hired some ordinary laborers. Were they uniformly good workers? No. About half of them did an honest day’s work, and the other half did as little as they could, as slowly as they could.”
   “What’s this got to do with the stock market?”
   “Oh, Pen! What’s any stock going to be worth if an industry has to overpay its labor? All materials will be overpriced because labor is overpaid, and the country will have inflation, just as they have it in Germany and Austria. You can buy a fine Mauser for fifteen cents today, in our money.”
   “Thank you. I’ve heard about their inflation.”
   “Well, then you know what I mean by holding on to it. I sometimes wonder if I want to make any more money in the market.”
   “What!”
   “Oh, I will. I’m greedy, too. But I wish people like us would get out of the stock market and stay out for a while. We won’t. It’s foolish to think of it. But there are a great, great many stocks that are selling for much more than their earnings justify. That isn’t healthy. What it meansis that people like us, with money to buy stocks, are just as bad as labor. Labor inflates by being overpaid. We inflate by sending up the prices of common stocks, far beyond their real worth.”
   “I hear plenty of that down here. Bear talk.”
   “I don’t see it as only bear talk. That’s the trouble with being here, around the corner from the Stock Exchange. Any comment a man makes is either bearish or bullish. That’s the only way you fellows think.”
   “I’m not a broker. Kindly don’t confuse me with one.”
   “It’s easy to. You talk like one. Frankly, I don’t like the stock market. I don’t like margin trading. I wish that I could find two or three investments. Buy the stock at the full price and hold on to it for twenty years, thirty years. But I don’t want to pay these prices for stocks that aren’t worth it: I say too many prices are already too high, and I just wish I were strong enough to resist the temptation to buy any more.”
   “You have no more objection to easy money than I have.”
   “I’m afraid not. I’m stingy at heart, and what I object to is being a sucker, paying fifty dollars for fifteen-dollar stocks. What’s going on today, by the way?”
   “In the market?” said Penrose Lockwood. “Have a look. Here’s Allied Chemical, 124. Dodge Brothers, 22½. American Radiator, off two, at 108. Yellow Truck, 27½.”
   “I see,” said George Lockwood. “Where are you meeting your cronies?”
   “Ray’s office. He’s having lunch sent in. I ought to call him if you’re going over there with me. Do you want to go?”
   “They’re not going to like what I have to say.”
   “Then shut up, or don’t come.”
   “I’ll shut up and listen, for a change,” said George Lockwood.
   Penrose Lockwood had his secretary call Ray Turner’s secretary, to say that Mr. George Lockwood would be an added guest at lunch. “How is Geraldine? She came for dinner last week, you probably know.”
   “Yes.”
   “Wilma thought she looked a little tired.”
   “She was tired. She’s been buying furniture for the new house. How is Wilma?”
   “Fine. Do you want to come for dinner? How long are you planning to be in town?”
   “About a week. I had to get the hell out of Swedish Haven.”
   “Why?”
   “Some God damn farmer’s kid got killed on my place.”
   “When?”
   “Yesterday. Yesterday afternoon. The house was finally finished. The last Italian carpenters had left, and I went home and had tea. Just getting ready to have my bath and the watchman phoned. The kid fell from a tree onto my wall. Impaled on a couple of spikes.”
   “Impaled? On spikes?”
   “I had spikes set in along the top of the wall. This kid fell on them.”
   “How horrible! How old was the kid?”
   “Thirteen or fourteen. One of a large family. Farmers named Zehner. None of it was my fault. The kid was trespassing, probably wanted to see what he could steal. But I got the hell out of Swedish Haven because I didn’t want to be questioned or have to appear at an inquest. I’ve spoken to Arthur McHenry and I’m legally okay. But I stay clear of any doings with the townspeople. Oh, our friends. But I’ve always avoided getting on familiar terms with the grocery clerks and people like that, and I didn’t want to have to talk to reporters, or answer questions at the inquest. That’s all been taken care of. By the way, Geraldine doesn’t know a thing about this, so not a word to her.”
   “Of course not.”
   “The house would get off to a bad start. You know Geraldine.”
   “She’s going to hear.”
   “But not right away. If I can put this thing in the past, she won’t be shocked. If she’d known about it last night she might very easily have said she’d never live in the house. The Curse of Lockwood Hall.”
   “You’re notcalling it that?”
   “Of course not, but that’s the general idea. Romanticizing a nasty accident to a young thief,” said George Lockwood. “What are you thinking about? Do you object to my calling him a thief?”
   “No. He probably was,” said Penrose Lockwood.
   “Well, what’s eating you? You’re miles away.”
   “No I’m not. I’m right here,” said Penrose Lockwood. “I have a problem of my own making. Nothing at all like this one of yours, but it’s a problem.”
   “Can I do anything?”
   “Well—yes. You’ve always been smarter than I am about women. Maybe you can think for me. I seem to have lost the power to think, at least about this. And I’m not so sure it doesn’t affect my thinking about other things.”
   “Let’s have it, Pen,” said George Lockwood.
   “Just don’t call me the kid brother.”
   “It’s all right if I think it, though, isn’t it? I want to help, and there aren’t very many people I can say that about. You have a lady friend.”
   “As long as I’ve been married to Wilma, that’s well over twenty years, I’ve never had anything to do with any other woman. There were times when I think I could have had a fling or two. I very nearly did during the war, when I was stationed at League Island. A girl, a woman, in Philadelphia, wife of a friend of mine that you don’t know. But we both saw how foolish it would be, and down deep she was in love with her husband and I was with Wilma. So we stopped seeing each other, and when I think of it, there was nothing that her husband or Wilma could object to. We just liked to talk,and I only kissed her once. That’s when we realized that our affection for each other had this other side to it. And we stopped then and there.”
   “You never slept with her?”
   “I told you. I kissed her exactly once. I’m not like you, George.”
   “You don’t knowwhat I’m like, but go on.”
   Penrose Lockwood stood up and went to the window, but it was at his past and not at Lower New York that he gazed.“Three years ago, a little over three years ago, I met a young woman. She was in her early twenties. Handsome. Quite intelligent. Some education, and I imagine came from a typical good middle-class family, not New York. I had occasion to see her quite frequently, and while I never thought of her that way, not consciously, I suppose that seeing her as often as I did, I was attracted to her physically. She was a young woman that was like a thousand other young women who have jobs in New York, and you notice them because they’re pretty, but you never think of them again. But in this case, seeing her day after day, exchanging a few words now and then, she stopped being just one more anonymous pretty girl, and on days when I didn’t see her, Imissed seeing her.”
   “Propinquity.”
   “Of course,” said Penrose Lockwood. “As you must have guessed, she, uh, had a job in the financial district, and one afternoon I gave her a lift uptown in a taxi, and since I was in no hurry, I stopped in for a drink at her apartment.”
   “This was three years ago?”
   “Almost four, as a matter of fact. Until that day, there never had been anything personal in our relationship. She wasMiss So-and-so, and I wasMr. Lockwood.” He came away from the window and seated himself in the big leather revolving chair, folded his hands and looked at his shoes. “She was quite an extraordinary young woman. Although she was only twenty-three, she’d been married and divorced and had taken her maiden name again. Her husband hadbeen a professional gambler in a city out West, but she didn’t find that out until they went on their wedding trip. Saratoga. She saw the kind of men his friends were, and he admitted that he’d lied to her. He wasn’t a bond salesman at all. He was an out-and-out professional gambler, and in less than a year she’d had all of that sort of life that she could put up with.He wouldn’t change his ways, it was too late, he said. So she left him and he agreed to a divorce. He was in his late thirties and he’d been married three or four times, and in fact he’d lied to her about that and made false statements in applying for the marriage license. So naturally he didn’t want any trouble, and he gave her the divorce readily enough. But she didn’t want to go back to her home town and her parents, and so she took a course in shorthand and typewriting and with her looks and personality, and ability as a stenographer, had no trouble getting a job in New York. She’d also had three years at one of the state universities, was far superior to the ordinary typist and was put in charge of several other stenographers.”
   “You’re having a hard time getting to your part of the story, Pen,” said George Lockwood.
   “I’ve never told the story before, that’s why. And I wantyou to understand that this wasn’t a cheap, casual affair, either on her part or on mine.”
   “But it soon became an affair, I gather,” said George Lockwood.
   “We don’t have to go into the details of that, do we? I’m not very proud of myself. I was forty-six years old, and with no reason to think that my life would be anything but what it was. Married to a fine woman. Good friends. Plenty of money. But whenever I was with this girl, at her apartment, I seemed to become another person.” He swung his chair so that he again faced the window. “She had a piano in her apartment, and at home I never touched the piano. But she’d buy all the latest tunes, sheet music, and I’d play and she’d sing. She had anice voice, contralto. And I began to spend every Saturday afternoon with her. I’m not trying to pretend that it was innocent fun, George. It was not. In that respect it was an entire new experience for me. I had never associated that experience with love, and I now realize that there was very little difference between my lack of sophistication and Wilma’s. Wilma’s—indifference, if you want to call it that—was largely my fault.”
   “The word love has just come into the conversation for the first time,” said George Lockwood. “You were in love with this young woman?”
   “Iam in love with her, and that’s the problem,” said Penrose Lockwood. “She’s going to marry someone else, and I’d do anything I could to prevent it.”
   “Short of marrying her yourself.”
   “Not short of marrying her myself.”
   “Have you asked her to marry you?”
   “I have. Last summer, when she told me that she had someone else, who wanted to marry her. She went away on her vacation and while she was away she had appendicitis.” He looked up quickly at his brother.
   “It’s all right, Pen,” said George Lockwood. “I guessed it a while ago.”
   “How? What did I say?”
   “When you were talking about her ability, and her being in charge of other stenographers. I think I began to guess it even before that. You don’t see many other stenographers day to day, and Miss Strademyer is certainly the most attractive one in this office.”
   “I’ve been alone with her once since last summer, and that was when she told me about her fiancé.”
   “Did you go to bed with her then?”
   “No. I wanted to, but she wouldn’t.”
   “And what did she say when you asked her to marry you?”
   “She said she wouldn’t. And she said she was going to resign her job here, and I’d soon forget her.”
   “What did you say to that?”
   “I told her to take a leave of absence, stay away as long as she wanted to, but to come back.”
   “Why?”
   “Because I know she was happy with me. If she wants to give marriage a try, then I have no right to oppose her. But I know she’ll want what we had, and miss it. For over three years, close to four, we had a relationship that I didn’t think was possible.”
   “Do you think she was faithful to you all that time?” said George Lockwood.
   “In the beginning, no. But for three years she was.”
   “You have only her word for that, Pen,” said George Lockwood.
   Penrose Lockwood smiled.“I haven’t even got that. I just know. That’s where inexperience counts, George. You would be full of doubts because you’ve been what they call a man of the world. But being a man of the world has cost you something. You have to doubt people because you give them so much cause to doubtyou.”
   “It’s true that I have less faith in women than you have,” said George Lockwood.
   “Oh, you’re completely cynical, not only about women.”
   “Cynical, but always hopeful. Well, you said you had a problem. What is the nature of the problem?”
   “You know, I don’t know that I have a problem now. I’ve poured it all out to you, and I’m grateful to you. But this has done me a world of good because I see everything more clearly. Marian will marry her young man, and I’ll have to endure that for a while, but she’ll be back.”
   “And then what? You’ll marry her?”
   “Yes. She’ll have had the chance she’s entitled to and that I can’t stand in the way of.”
   “Well, then you have no problem. I hope you won’t be sorry you confided in me,” said George Lockwood.
   “On the contrary. It’s a great load off my mind.”
   “There’s only one thing, Pen. What if she likes being married to this young man?”
   “You’re just as thorough as always, and I was wondering whether you weren’t going to ask that,” said Penrose Lockwood. “I’ve thought about it. Worried about it. But now I realize that those kind of doubts are inconsistent with what I really believe. Really know.”
   “Well, as long as you’re that confident,” said George Lockwood.
   “Still the cynic, George. You miss a lot that way.”
   “Yes, I know I do. Come on, let’s get over to Ray Turner’s solid mahogany bucket-shop. Maybe I ought to say old oaken bucket-shop.”
   The brothers rose simultaneously. George Lockwood helped Pen-rose on with his coat and they proceeded to George’s office, where Penrose helped George. George then linked his arm in his brother’s, and they went out to the elevator together.
•

   Ray Turner’s private office was neither mahogany nor oaken; it was in the newer fashion, knotty pine, and spacious enough for the caterer’s table and service wagon. “George, I don’t know when I saw you last. You don’t get down here often enough, but I’m very glad you came today.”
   “Oh, I don’t belong down here. I’m just a hick from the country,” said George Lockwood.
   “I hear you’re becoming a country squire,” said Ray Turner.
   “Yes, I heard that, too,” said Charley Bohm. “The hick from the country is making more money than any of us. How did you finally come out on that carburetor deal, if you don’t mind my asking?”
   “Not at all,” said George Lockwood. “As the British say, we made a small packet. Pen will tell you.”
   “We won the patent suit. You knew that,” said Penrose Lockwood.
   “Yes. I saw that,” said Charley Bohm.
   “Well, then we sold our interest to Carlton-MacLeod,” said Pen-rose Lockwood.
   “Oh,they got it?” said Bohm.
   “Yes, we got some common, some preferred—” said Penrose Lockwood.
   “And some cash, I imagine,” said Bohm.
   “Oh, always some cash,” said George Lockwood. “Always, always some cash.”
   “Well, that’s the way I like to do business as a rule,” said Bohm. “I always like to see some cash in a transaction. You took the common instead of royalties, I imagine.”
   “We sure did,” said Penrose Lockwood. “That’s one less step in the bookkeeping. Funny things happen to royalties sometimes, but when you own common stock you have a better idea of where you stand.”
   “You do indeed,” said Bohm.
   “Does anyone care for a cocktail?” said Ray Turner.
   “Nope,” said Charley Bohm.
   “No thanks,” said Penrose Lockwood.
   “Well, I’ll have one, Ray. A Martini?” said George Lockwood.
   “And I’ll have one with you,” said Ray Turner. “Stirred, or shaken?”
   “Shaken vigorously is the way I like them,” said George Lockwood.
   “So do I,” said Ray Turner. “Waiter, did you hear that?”
   “Yes sir,” said the waiter, going to work.
   “Then you can come back in about an hour,” said Turner. “We’ll serve ourselves from the wagon. We’re having lobster Newburg, gentlemen. Meet with your approval, George?”
   “I’d be crazy if it didn’t,” said George Lockwood.
   “Tell me about your new estate,” said Ray Turner.
   “Well, I’ve got about three hundred acres, all told. We’re hoping to have some good shooting in a year or two.”
   “Horses?” said Charley Bohm.
   “No horses. My wife doesn’t ride and I don’t any more. It isn’t riding country.”
   “No fox-hunting riding-to-hounds?” said Bohm.
   “Not within fifty miles. It’s just a house on the hillside, woodland on three sides.”
   “What kind of a house did you build, George? We’re thinking of either buying or building,” said Turner.
   “Lockwood Colonial, I guess you’d call it,” said George Lockwood. “Red brick, two stories, an attic and a cellar. Doorway in the center. Very simple.”
   “How many rooms in a house like that?” said Bohm.
   “In ours, which is deceptively deep, eighteen. It looks smaller than that sounds. Then we have two apartments over the garage. We have a tennis court and a small swimming-pool, and later on a house where people can change their clothes and, in a pinch, spend the night. We don’t expect to do much entertaining.”
   “Well, you’re all set,” said Turner.
   “Yes, we have plenty of water. Some game. A few deer. Fruit trees. We could subsist there if we had to. I always said that if I ever built a house I’d like to feel that I could be like the first Lockwoods that came to this country.”
   “When was that, George?” said Bohm.
   “Well, our branch arrived here early in the Eighteenth Century. We believe he helped build the Conestoga wagon, and took a trip in one and settled in Central Pennsylvania. Am I correct, Brother Penrose?”
   “Yes. He opened a store somewhere along the way.”
   “And was killed by Indians. Or at least Indians were blamed. But now I’ve said enough. My brother cautioned me against talking too much.”
   “Of course it is,” said George Lockwood.